---
title: St Peter's bellringers recognised on Bell Sunday
gallery:
  - url: /media/leckhampton1.jpeg
    image_path: /media/leckhampton1.jpeg
    title: "Bellringing before morning service 12 May 2024"
  - url: /media/leckhampton2.jpeg
    image_path: /media/leckhampton2.jpeg
    title: "Learners with certificates -- Marika Hortop, Keith Reading, Brad Coates, Jacob Coates, Gilly Whittingham and Malcolm Ware with Stuart Tomlinson, Tower Captain"
  - url: /media/leckhampton3.jpeg
    image_path: /media/leckhampton3.jpeg
    title: "Learners and Stuart Tomlinson being thanked by Rev Gary Grady"
---

Bell Sunday is an annual opportunity to celebrate the contribution
of bell ringers to the life of the church, and to acknowledge the
part that bells play in worship and community life all the year
round.

At St Peter's, we celebrated during the morning service on Sunday 12
May, with Rev Gary Grady thanking Stuart Tomlinson, the Bell
Captain, for leading the bellringers as well as maintaining the
bells in the tower.

Stuart recognised that learning to ring bells is rewarding but not
easy! About ten years ago, ART (Association of Ringing Teachers) set
up a five level framework to help learners progress through to
ringing Quarter Peals.

Six St Peter's learners were presented with certificates and
applauded by the congregation for the progress they are making in
developing their skills. Brad Coates and Jacob Coates, Level 1 --
Bell Handling, Malcolm Ware, Level 2 -- Foundation Skills, Keith
Reading Level 3 -- Introduction to Change Ringing, Gilly Whittingham
and Marika Hortop Level 4 - Novice Change Ringer.

Bell Sunday is always kept on a Sunday close to St Dunstan's feast
day. He is known as the patron saint of bell ringers due to his
experimentation in the early forging of bells in the 900s and his
encouragement of the use of bells in parish churches. Today, the day
is designed to raise awareness of bell ringing, to emphasise the
importance of the sound of bells in our communities and how it can
help bring church and community together, and to strengthen
relationships between church leaders and bell ringers.

Bells are usually rung from inside the church, but can be heard for
miles around. At Leckhampton we are fortunate that bellringers can
also be seen in action in the church, rather than being hidden up
the bell tower.

As well as ringing before church services, the bellringers can be
heard at weddings and important national and international events,
for example for the coronation of King Charles III. Listen out for
bells ringing out across the country on 6 June 2024 to mark the
80th Anniversary of D Day.

For more information: [Bell Ringers -- Leckhampton PCC](https://stpetersleck.org/mesmerize/groups-at-st-peters/bell-ringers/)

{% include gallery caption="Leckhampton Bell Sunday 2024" %}
